h1. New Markup

* Forms 2.0
* Rich-text editors
* Semantic tags
* Custom attributes

h1. Forms 2.0

Let's improve this form.

:code code/register_plain.html[lang=html]

h1. New Form Fields

What's better about this version?

:code code/input_email.html[lang=html]

Hint: imagine using it on an iPhone.

h1. New Form Fields

|@type="search"@|<input type="search" />|
|@type="number" min="0" max="10" step="2"@|<input type="number" min="0" max="10" step="2" value="6"/>|
|@type="range" min="0" max="10" step="2"@|<input type="range" />|
|@type="tel"@|<input type="tel" />|
|@type="url"@|<input type="url" />|
|@type="email"@|<input type="email" />|
|@type="date"@|<input type="date" value="2010-12-29" />|
|@type="time"@|<input type="time" value="10:00" />|

h1. New Form Attributes: @placeholder@

:code code/placeholder.html[lang=html]

h1. New Form Attributes: @placeholder@

:include code/placeholder.html

h1. New Form Attributes: @autofocus@

:code code/autofocus.html[lang=html]

h1. Form Validation: @required@

:code code/required.html[lang=html]

h1. Form Validation: @pattern@

:code code/pattern.html[lang=html]

@pattern@ takes regular expressions.

h1. Form Demos

* <a href="../code/autofocus.html">autofocus</a>
* <a href="../code/required.html">required</a> (Firefox 4)
* <a href="../code/pattern.html">pattern</a> (Firefox 4)

h1. Rich Text Editor

:code code/contenteditable.html[lang=html]

h1. Rich Text Editor

Sadly, @contentEditable="true"@ elements are *not* form fields.
* not automatically submitted
* no @value@ property; use DOM properties like @innerHTML@
* no @onchange@ events; use low-level events like @onkeypress@ or @oninput@
* unnatural API for editing via @execCommand@

Full demo at "quirksmode":http://www.quirksmode.org/dom/execCommand/

h1. Semantic Tags

:inlinecode[lang=html]
<div id="header">
  <div id="navigation">
     ...
  </div>
</div>
<div id="footer">
  ...
</div>
:endinlinecode

h1. Semantic Tags

:inlinecode[lang=html]
<header>
  <nav>
     ...
  </nav>
</header>
<footer>
  ...
</footer>
:endinlinecode

h1. Semantic Tags

| @<article>@ | @<aside>@   | @<header>@     |
| @<hgroup>@  | @<footer>@  | @<section>@    |
| @<nav>@     | @<figure>@  | @<figcaption>@ |
| @<mark>@    | @<summary>@ |                |

h1. Custom Attributes

:code code/data_attributes.html[lang=html]

* @data-@ prefix reserved for application-specific attributes
* Documents with @data-@ attributes pass HTML5 validators
* @data-@ values wrapped in @dataset@ DOM property

:code code/data_attributes.js[lang=javascript]
